 Stargate put that name down in your books because I think you're going to hear a lot about it. In the future, a new American company that will invest $500 billion at least in AI infrastructure. The data centers are actually under construction. The first of them are under construction in Texas. The Abelene location, which is our first location. Abelene is a town on the western central plains of Texas. We kind of scratch and fight for everything good that comes our way. I had people reaching out and I said, was the president going to come see you? And I said, will he as it takes me yet? I'm thrilled we get to do this in the United States of America. I think this will be the most important project of this era. Welcome to Abelene, Texas. This is the site of Project Stargate. A very mysterious, much talked about, much-veculated about project that brings together open AI, soft bank, Oracle. If it all comes together, building after building on this red dirt behind me will be filled with chips that will power the AI revolution. What we're undergoing right now is the largest infrastructure building in human history. It's going to create new ways of doing business, it's going to create new ways of invention, and it's going to really drive humanity forward. I was in the real estate business, these buildings, these are big beautiful buildings that can employ a lot of people. How do you personally grapple with the pace of it all? It does feel like it's going very fast. I certainly think if I could like transport myself back three years ago it would seem like unimaginable progress. This is amazing, explosive growth of intelligence that's coming in the decade. Everything will change. When Stargate was first announced there was a lot of skepticism, a lot of people thought it's just too big to be true. So this is your very first look. Hello! Hey, Emily. Thank you so much for having us. Welcome to Abelene. It's so awesome to be here. It's all happening. I know. How many people are on this site? Today we have about 2,200 people on site. The guy at the heart of the Stargate building Abelene is Chase Lockmiller. He's the founder of Crusoe, the little known data center startup overseeing this massive project. We started construction here last June, June of 2024. This was just a complete barren field. So there was nothing here in June? There were a bunch of mosquito trees and bushes and brush. Stargate is so mysterious. What actually is happening here? What will eventually be here is eight separate buildings, all containing very large clusters of fully interconnected GPUs. We're going to do a tour of some of that. Is this going to get us around the whole 1200 acre campus? Hey, we're going on an adventure. It's like getting around Jurassic Park. I want to do something. Alright, let's go off roading. I feel like we're going on a data center safari. It is much like a data center safari. Crusoe's eight plan buildings will hold up to 400,000 chips, which would make this one of the world's largest known compute clusters. The partners behind Stargate, OpenAI, Oracle and Softbank, have committed $100 billion to the project so far, and claimed they're prepared to put in five times that as they expand to multiple sites. This first sight in Abelene has been dubbed Project Ludacris, as in... Ludacris Speed! Ludacris Speed. Which is appropriate. The whole thing is supposed to be done by mid-2026. Are you round clock 24 hours a day? We're around the clock. It is very much a 24-7 operation. We're trying to deliver on the fastest schedule that a 100 megawatt or greater data center has ever been built. So, why the Ludacris rush? Well, because Stargate is part of a much larger AI race. Companies like Microsoft, Meta, Google, Amazon and XAI are all building AI data centers of their own, at sites across the US and beyond. Each company wants to have the most capable AI being used by the most people, and they've committed tens of billions of dollars to make it happen. There's no reason we wouldn't scale apart computing 100,000 times in a few years. I'm good for my 80 billion. I'm going to spend 80 billion dollars building out Azure. The downside of being behind is that you're out of position for the most important technology for the next 10 to 15 years. But beyond just making better AI, many tech leaders want to be the first to create AGI, artificial general intelligence, a super smart agent that can think and learn just like a human, if not better. Large language models like Chatchy-P-T have gotten more capable as the technology's evolved, so the hope is that adding an astronomical amount of compute will make them even more capable. Take me back to the beginning before Stargate. What did you start seeing in that made you realize we need more compute, more power, more connectivity that you were hitting a limit and needed to scale? We used to think a lot about the compute, we would need to train the models, and what we didn't used to think about it as much as how much people were going to use these models. We didn't think about it, just turned out people want to use the models much more than we imagined. And a couple of years ago, maybe after the launch of GPT-4 in Chatchy-P-T, it really started to hit like, oh man, this has gone from a lot of compute to the biggest infrastructure project in history. And out of that, Emerge Stargate. Why call it Stargate? It began as a codename and sometimes codename stick. But it means something, right? So the design of one of the very early layouts of a data center looked a little bit like Stargate from the show. How did you get to talking with Masiochi-san and Larry Ellison, and how did you all come together? I did two kind of long trips around the world, and a lot of it was to talk to developers and governments. But a lot of it was also to just really try to like get my head around the supply chain. On one of those trips, I met with Masiochi, and we got to speaking about, you know, what it would take to do compute at this kind of scale. Hi, Masio, it's so nice to see you. What conversations did you have with Sam that led to Stargate? Well, we have a shared vision of AGI coming soon, and we need compute. Of all the bets you could make, why this? Why Stargate? Well, I believe in the vision that this AI, the AGI will change the mankind's life in every aspect. And we are lucky to see this enormous revolution, and I'd like to be part of that, and get excited. Last month, I came to celebrate your winning and promised that we would invest $100 billion. And you told me, oh, Masa, go for $200. Now I came back with $500. Explain the math to us. How does it all add up to needing $500 billion? Well, that covers the capacity we think we need for the next few years given our growth projections. The interesting question is if we knew how to get a trillion dollars right now, if we don't, would we be able to deploy that profitably in the next few years? And I'm not sure about that, but I feel confident we can make $500 billion of value back. All right, so what are we seeing? There's many forklifts, there's many cranes, there's many dump trucks, there's many excavators. New creatures emerge in every turn. Are most of the workers from Abelie? We're a very large employer here in Abelie, but we have brought in a lot of labor from outside the city, and outside the state. We actually have workers from seven different states. I've never built anything of this scale. It's one of the underappreciated aspects of AI, is actually just the physical infrastructure that's needed. This is awesome! I love it! Building stuff! Yes! There's 155 vehicles that are moving dirt, moving earth right now. There's something so satisfying about seeing lots of dirt being moved. Yeah, absolutely. If you look at that crane, like this red crane, that's a 600 ton crane. I have no, like how does that compare to other cranes? It can lift a lot away, I mean, 600 tons, that's like 100 elephants, right? This is actually happening around the world, data centers are being built in Malaysia and Japan and France. I think the demand for compute infrastructure, it's not a US phenomenon, it is a global phenomenon. A lot of countries had actually decided that data centers are critical infrastructure that must be accelerated. So if hyper scalars are going to Malaysia or Japan, is that competition for you? We don't really see it as competition. We kind of see it as just an overall growth of the sector. We think we have a lot of unique ways of doing it and a lot of value to add in the process, but you know, pretty just excited by everything happening in the space. Locke Miller's path to leading the Stargate build has been circuitous. He's climbed five of the so-called seven summits, the tallest mountain on each continent, and worked in physics and finance. Tell me about your journey before Crusoe. You grew up in Denver, you started out using AI as a trader on Wall Street. Yeah, we were big early adopters of deep learning, using these multilayer neural networks to predict returns for certain securities. And you know, we found them to be fairly effective. I had high conviction that AI was going to transform everything. It sort of always felt like this, this meta-science. Locke Miller eventually left finance to get into crypto, not in the get-rich quick, hyping meme coins way, but in the hundreds of computers solving math problems way. His idea was to build Bitcoin mining operations near oil rigs, taking advantage of a quirk in the oil drilling process. When an oil company drills for oil, one of the associated byproducts of that is natural gas. And when they don't have access to a pipeline, all of this associated gas is just being burned off on site. And so we had this concept that instead of trying to bring that gas to a market, where you can sell it, we could bring a market to the gas. We could build these mobile and modular data centers and bring them directly to the wellhead, and then use that power to power the data center. It was a good idea with unfortunate timing. The crypto market crashed. You then went from Bitcoin mining to AI. It almost sounds like going from one hype cycle to another. Yeah, it may seem like that from the outside, but I'll say that from very early on, we had planned to build an AI infrastructure business. So what do Bitcoin mining and AI data centers have in common? Number one, they both consume much from an amount of energy. Number two, they're both more location agnostic than traditional data centers. Northern Virginia is largely perceived to be sort of the center of the world for data centers today. That's data center 1.0, right? That's data center 1.0. Virginia's data center alley is where the first generation of cloud computing was built, close to the government agencies that created the original internet. Those data centers are full of CPUs, basic computer chips that power everyday things like social media, streaming, and the cloud. Stargate, on the other hand, is part of a new era of data centers full of GPUs. The special advanced chips needed to power AI and do lots of tasks at once. So this is the inside of a data center? This is the inside of a data center under construction. There are points of view. Very active construction. So you can take them through one of these. Okay. Yeah. Okay. People look like they were working very hard and fast. People never love what I show up for data centers. No. Why? It's not my experience. Yeah. And I have opinions. And so people are like, okay, you know, we must alone. So we are going to go to one of the GPU data halls where there will be a very large cluster of blackwell GPUs. Blackwell is the newest AI optimized chip from Nvidia. Once the eight buildings of Project Ludacris are complete, each of them will hold up to 50,000 chips to be installed by Stargate Partner Oracle. Wow. This is where the GPUs will go. This is where the GPUs are going. I've been waiting for this. This is where the AI factory will be. All right. This is what an AI factory looks like. And it truly is like a factory. But the difference is the end product that gets manufactured here is intelligence. And the sooner this AI factory starts up, the better for OpenAI. In March, the company rolled out a new and improved image generator for Chatchy-P-T, which quickly became almost too popular to handle. I've seen viral moments, but I have never seen anyone have to deal with an influx of usage like this. You added a million users in an hour or something like that? Yeah. I mean, more some hours, but yeah. It was like unprecedented wild. And also making an image is not a, it's not exactly like a low-compute task the way we do it with the new image. You tweeted that the GPUs were melting you. Yeah, I didn't realize people were going to take that literally. I mean, I get that it was a joke, but it's a lot of... They're running very hot, but the metal is not actually melting. So we had to do a lot of very unnatural things. We had to borrow compute capacity from research. We had to slow down some other features. Because it's not like we have hundreds of thousands of GPUs sitting around just like spinning idly. If we had more GPUs, we would be more able to handle demand searches like this. So it's that directly linked? Yeah. You know, more compute means we can give you more AI. So one of the things to just take note of is just the amount of stuff happening overhead. You can kind of see these very large pipes that distribute cold water to the individual chips to cool them down. The water is needed because GPUs run very hot and keeping them cool typically involves an evaporation process that can consume millions of gallons of water per day. That's raised concerns about the sustainability of this AI boom. With Stargate, though, Crusoe says it's bypassed this problem using what's called a closed-down. Which keeps the water permanently encased within pipes. You can put a million gallons in and then you don't need more forever. Yeah, that's essentially right. We basically fill it one time and then we're done. And that's something we can easily coordinate with the city in terms of getting a million gallons of water one time. It's a far different ask than asking for a million gallons an hour or some other crazy request. Which could be the case if you hadn't opened a loop. I'll call it architecture. So once this is all built, what's the grand vision? Give people tools to let them do whatever they're going to do better. People will use it and unleash their creative energy and make all sorts of stuff that you and I love or some stuff that we don't. Or stuff that should entertain themselves. Personally, the area I'm most excited about is AI for scientific discovery. You know, we're not there yet, but we're not far away. I think 2025 will be a world where we have agents do a lot of work, but work of the kind of work, things we already know how to do. I'm hopeful that the 2026 will be a big year of like really new scientific progress. But in order for that to happen, buildings full of chips aren't enough. You also need energy. Lots and lots of energy. That could be a problem for the climate and a limiting factor in the growth of AI. Sam Altman's been hunting for more compute for a while now and it seems like energy is a big constraint. Can you explain that? Like, what are the limits? Let me sort of put this in perspective for you. If you look at a data center 20 years ago, an individual rack in the data center would typically be budgeted to consume between like two and four kilowatts. Today, with the latest and greatest configuration from Nvidia, you know, we budget 130 kilowatts per rack. So you're talking about almost two orders of magnitude increase. To put it another way, asking chat GPT a question uses about 10 times as much energy as a Google search. It is a complete transformation in terms of the amount of infrastructure required to support this workload. And so that has become the major bottleneck. So AI data centers can't be located just anywhere. You need a location with lots of available power. And West Texas happens to fit the bill. We came to Abelene honestly because it's a community that's very rich in low cost and clean energy. A lot of wind development has happened in around the Abelene region. And what they lack is actually demand for power. That created a massive opportunity for AI, which is so hungry for power in this moment. This is the first 200 megawatt substation. Right over here, there's going to be developed an incremental one gigawatt substation. So the total power capacity for the site will be a total of 1.2 gigawatts. All right, so we're talking bigger than a gigawatt. Bigger than a gigawatt. Yeah, everybody seems to want a gigawatt or more these days. If that sounds like a lot, well, it is. Enough to power about 750,000 homes, 2600 Tesla Model 3s, or 100 million LED light bulbs. There's a funny back to the future of quote where he says 1.21 gigawatts. 1.21 gigawatts. And because it's 1.2 gigawatts, it's kind of funny. As more and more AI data centers come online in the next few years, they'll add many gigawatts of demand to an already overstressed grid. According to one estimate, data centers could consume more than 8% of America's electricity by 2035. And while the International Energy Agency predicts renewables will meet about half that demand, the rest will mostly come from coal and gas. Crusoe is even building its own gas power plant on site as a backup. Every major tech company has this net zero pledge by 2030. Are our AI ambitions running directly counter to our climate goals? It's complicated. My personal perspective is none of those pledges are going to be met by 2030. And there's ways of kind of fudging it. You're buying a bunch of racks or offsets. But the actual energy that's being used, there's no way it's going to get to 100% carbon free power production to power all of the AI infrastructure that's being developed. It's just like fundamentally not possible. So the tech companies are lying or fudging it? That's a good question. You're good. No, look, I think a lot of these goals were ambitious and a lot of the goals predated the demand that people are experiencing from AI infrastructure. So I think AI has actually kind of changed their path. Now, the optimist in me says that, well, it may get worse before it gets better. There is light at the end of the tunnel. And I think the fact that AI is a massive tool for invention. It's actually going to accelerate the development of a lot of new technologies. The fact that we're building a lot of new infrastructure that requires a lot of energy actually provides this massive opportunity for AI to be one of the early adopters of new energy solutions. Things like small modular reactors, geothermal, nuclear fusion. You know, the fact that AI has a massive demand for energy puts it in a position to actually intentionally decide what does the energy infrastructure look like that's going to power it. For now, Stargate seems to have the resources it needs to accomplish its goals. But with huge investments come huge risks. Bloomberg's Brody Ford has been following Stargate and the many ways it could go wrong or right for the Stargate partners and for the city of Abelene. Thanks for coming out. Thank you. We got the cactus right behind you. Yeah. What's your impression of Stargate? It's happening, right? I mean, there's a lot of naysayers on the internet that nothing about it's real, but it's clear. I mean, it is a massive project. The fact that they're talking about having, you know, a gigawattic capacity live in about two years. It's an ambitious target and seeing that in person kind of showed how frantic the whole thing feels. A gigawatt is huge. Oh, it's huge. It's comically big, right? I mean, nobody was saying these kind of numbers two years ago. Yeah. How does this compare to other big tech projects in other places? We've been tracking a lot of the big data center projects. I mean, data center spending has ramped in the last couple years. I think 200 billion in CapEx in the last year. I think two big projects that people are really watching right now is here in Abelene for Stargate and Elon's built out in Memphis. Both have been thought to be the largest computing clusters at various moments depending on who you ask. But I think what unites them is just the fact that they need so many chips and it's the amount of labor coming into them. This is to me a very big thing. $500 billion. Stargate project. I think it's going to be something that's very special. The number, $500 billion is that for real? I don't think anybody thinks they're going to hit $500 billion. Maybe I will eat my words. Soft bank has a reputation for buying toward the top for getting into projects once the hype cycle is already pretty advanced. I'm very confident. We don't need $500 billion in one day. We go step by step. So we are very confident to make it happen. This is a lot of money and not all of your bets have paid off. Where do you get your conviction? Well, you know, sometimes I get the crazy over excited and I make mistakes like we work and I have many scars. But when you have conviction and passion, you actually learn more from those mistakes and scars and that will make you stronger. Where's the money going? Who's the real winner here? So yeah, I think we've all seen Nvidia's stock up and say number and said, whoa, how is that spending ramping so heavily? It's these data centers, right? I mean, in what we saw today, $400,000 ships. That's conservatively $15, $20 billion. AI holes incredible promise for all of us. Let's talk about Oracle. What is Oracle's role? For a long time, you know, the leaders in offering cloud infrastructure forever was, you know, Amazon, Microsoft, or ElectricSent Google. People weren't taking Oracle seriously for a long time, but with the AI boom, they have shown they're able to make these really vast data centers quickly. And so their role here is essentially putting in the servers, putting in the fiber optic cable and getting that compute over to OpenAI. I mean, the underlying theme here is that OpenAI and companies like it need as much computing powers that can. They're looking for creative ways to, you know, conjure up those funds. And Oracle is a company that says, oh, God, you want to pay us to build out these data centers? Absolutely. You count us in. The sizes keep getting bigger and bigger. Is there a chance we're over-building? Do we need all this? God, every single day somebody has a different take. Every single day, like, we saw with DeepSeek, right? That, wait a second. Do we really need all of this infrastructure? For those not obsessively following every twist and turn in the AI race, DeepSeek is a Chinese company whose own AI model went viral in January. Very I performed at a similar level to leading US models, but used far fewer computing resources. This raised the question, are Stargate scale mega projects really necessary? DeepSeek appears to have found a more efficient way to power AI. Was that a moment of rethink for you? And are you doing anything differently now? I think that DeepSeek team is very talented and did a lot of good things. I don't think they figured out something like way more efficient than what we figured out. But do you think there is a more efficient way to- Oh, I'm sure. We will, we have made incredible efficiency strides year over year, and I'm sure we'll keep doing that. So if that's the case, why are you building all this? If we had an AI that we could offer at one tenth of the price of current AI, I think people would use it 20 times as much. And we would still need twice as much compute to satisfy the then current demand. Some companies seem less sure. Microsoft, for example, announced that it was pausing more canceling several data center builds in the US and abroad. A lot of folks worry that we aren't that far from seeing some kind of pullback, some kind of wall. It's kind of like how all the big tech companies were hiring every single person they could in 2020-2021. Then at one point, they started firing people. And I think we're at this point where every time a lease gets canceled for a data center, people wonder, oh, did we hit this moment? Do we really need all of this infrastructure? Is there really a payoff in the end? Are folks going to use these tools enough that it's going to pay for all of this build out? How confident are you that OpenAI is going to be a financially sustainable and profitable enough company to justify all of this investment? It's looking like we're doing really well. I mean, we have to... We are definitely doing something unprecedented. You know, it seems like I feel confident in the bet. It doesn't mean something can't go wrong. What are the risks? I mean, maybe, you know, people stop wanting to like pay for AI services and then we have a difficult financial position. What do you say to the people out there who think this is a massive boon doggo? Look, I mean, I think there's always going to be doubters. But I think that, again, the money piece, I think so long as AI is delivering value to society, the money will be there to build the infrastructure. I have no concerns around that. Even if it's not all 100% accounted for today, that money is there and there's a lot of money that wants to invest in this category. What we're undergoing right now is sort of the largest infrastructure building human history. Right? This is like where we built the interstate highway system. You know, that enabled massive interstate commerce and transportation and catalyzed this massive boom in the US economy. What's happening in AI infrastructure is we're building the super highway system that's going to enable modern intelligence systems. That's going to create all sorts of new job categories that don't even exist today. It's going to create new ways of doing business. It's going to create new ways of invention. And it's going to really drive humanity forward. The data center boom isn't just affecting the AI business. There are local impacts too. Across the country, places like Abelene are trying to attract data center projects. And the jobs and tax revenue that come with them. I make a dollar a year being there. So I've got to have another business. So your side business is still the past control? I'm a hard killer. How would you describe Abelene? Well, Abelene, it's an old railroad town. So we have lots of western heritage. But that doesn't mean that we don't want to grow and look forward to the future. We want our city to grow. And we look forward to these opportunities that are coming to us. What have you heard about the Stargate Project? It could quite possibly be the largest AI data center in the world. And that excites me to know that we're going to be a front runner in technology right here in West Texas. I've spent the last couple of months looking at some of these biggest projects and trying to see what documents we can find. How have these, you know, some of the world's largest, most powerful companies been interacting with these local means of power? Largely what we have found is that these local towns are willing to forego quite a bit of tax revenue, quite a bit of control to be able to bring these big companies in. What is Abelene giving up to have Stargate here? So what Abelene agreed to with Stargate with this data center is 85% of tax revenue off the property tax wiped? So they're losing out on 85%. Yeah, I mean, I'm sure they would say, and the developers would say that you're still getting a lot of property tax revenue, and that's probably true, right? But these are pretty tough deals being struck, right? I mean, I think a lot of these smaller towns did not take place in a tech boom with the last 20 years. All of those jobs went to the coasts, right? And I think there's a lot of local city leaders who want to be able to say were a part of this. And they're willing to strike some pretty extreme deals to make it happen. You're giving up 85% in tax revenue. Yeah, we're getting 15% of billions of dollars, so that's the way I look at it. Right? It is a large tax increase. We're talking millions of dollars on annual basis. It's going to help us to pave streets, to hire police officers, to do the things cities do. When you were negotiating, did you feel like there was a risk they could go elsewhere? Like, were you worried about not winning the deal? Whenever you're attracting a prospect, yes, you always worry about that. But at the same time, if it wasn't going to work for both parties, we weren't going to lay down and just get run over by these people either. How many jobs do you think Stargate will really create? Well, I'll tell you what I've heard. So, somewhere between 4 and 1,200, there's going to be security, there's going to be maintenance. You know, they're going to have grass, people are going to mo grass out there. So, there's going to be all kinds of jobs that go with something that large too, other than just the technical jobs. We think about tech investments and tech campuses as kind of these thousands of high-paying jobs, with our really kind of boosting local economy. Once data centers are completed, it's often not a lot of full-time workers. How many people does it really take to run a data center? Like, I keep thinking about that scene in Silicon Valley, and there's one guy in that data center. There's really no difference between day and night down here, so it makes things easy. There are going to be quite a few people here. I know you're looking for a specific number for me, but I can't give it to you. What if they don't create as many jobs as you hope for? You know, I don't know a lot about AI centers or how many people they employ. I mean, I'm going to be honest about that. But, you know, they're still building the facility, they're still putting billions of dollars into the economy. And so, we're just trusting. You know, we have to have a little trust with these partnerships. We're in downtown Abelene. Right now, it's really windy. I can see why this is a good place for wind power. Oh, we just wanted to talk to people to see what they think about Stargate. If they've heard of it, so we're going to go try to find some folks and not blow away. So, have you heard of Stargate? I have. Then, still recently, I had not. Have you heard of Stargate? No. It was announced by Trump, and that's kind of really all that I've heard. I know that it has to do with AI and is supposed to bring maybe a lot of people to Abelene. It's going to be a big server farm and employee quite a few people. What do you think about that? Peaches were a good thing. I'm a computer guy. I did that in the Army. I invented computers. Oh, you invented computers. What do you hope it brings to Abelene? I would love to see more people here, and especially, like, it would help local businesses. For Abelene, for West Texas, I think it creates a huge stream of jobs that aren't really available. Math and alcohol addiction is huge in this area because one of the only jobs available is the Oling S. And so, this adds something different and hopefully breaks some of those cycles. Do you have any concerns about how much power they're going to use or water? You know, I know that AI takes up a lot of power to use, but I'm not too sure what exactly it'll do to Abelene. I feel like I'm not concerned on that side of things. It's going to use a lot of power. Is that concern you? Good. What's all that? I know. It might put some stress on the Abelene grid. Oh, and there's a trace of the grid there. What do you think about AI? AI has terrified me for 20 years. I think there are so many questions that we don't have answers to when it comes to AI. I think we're biting up way more than we can chew. Do you use AI at all? I actually do use AI. Our professors at ACU sometimes recommend that we use it. I think it's a good thing. I think it can be used to ways either creatively or kind of a crutch. So how do you feel about the fact that Abelene's going to be the site of this big development? I love jobs coming to Abelene, but I'm not excited about it. Where are we going and how do you even fight it? The big picture to me is AI is going to take over and then where are we as humans? You know, it just terrifies me. It honestly just terrifies me. Well, it makes reviews. There's definitely a lot of questions. We'll have to see how the project pans out and it's going to happen over years. So it could be a while before we know for sure. There is this lofty promise that AI data centers are going to create thousands and thousands of jobs. The meantime, AI is destroying jobs elsewhere. And I feel like even, you know, there is serious anxiety out there. People are scared. Even among the best engineers and technologists, people are scared. What do you say to those people? AI is for sure going to change a lot of jobs, totally take some jobs away, create a bunch of new ones. This is like the kind of, this is what happens with technology. In fact, I think you look at the history of the world. That's just been happening for a long time. The thing I think the world is not ready for. People have maybe abstractly thought, okay, it's going to be a better programmer than me. It's going to be better at customer support, whatever. I don't think the world has really had the humanoid robots moment yet. The first day you're walking down the street and there's seven robots that walk past you doing things or whatever. It's going to feel very sci-fi. And I don't think that's very far away from a visceral, like, oh man, this is going to do a lot of things that people used to do. So yeah, it's coming. And we have always tried to just be super honest about what we think, the impact may be realizing that will be wrong in a lot of details. Lately, predicting the future of AI seems harder than usual. In a few moments, I will sign a historic executive order, instituting reciprocal tariffs. President Trump's tariffs and the increasing volatility of geopolitics have created potential challenges for the AI infrastructure boom. And shaken up the race to dominate AI between the US and China. Technology faces rising costs. Building these data centers just got considerably more expensive. It is very difficult to immediately decouple. Uncertainty is bad for business. Instead of moving forward, people have war rooms about, oh, what's tomorrow going to look like? Former diplomat, Anya Manuel and Bloomberg Shereen Gafari, have been closely watching how this could impact projects like Stargate. How much does the AI and data center supply chain depend on China? Yeah, so a lot of the materials that are used to build data centers. A lot of these materials actually come from China, right? China's a major manufacturer that could be an area of impact on raising construction center costs. Now, on the chip side, that's a much bigger, higher cost for these companies, right? And that there's a lot more uncertainty. The most sophisticated chips are manufactured in Taiwan, Korea, Japan, often brought to China to be integrated into all of the electronics that are in all of our pockets. This is a really complex, totally international supply chain. And I think the takeaway for everyone is, you cannot just break the international trading system, and we cannot be a country that lives in autarky. We're always going to depend on others. What does Stargate mean for the US-China tech race? I think it's one critical step in so many steps. When you look at the race that's on between the US and China, we're in a real race. The Chinese are giving us a run for their money. China's right behind us. I mean, we're very, very close. 50% of the world's AI researchers are Chinese. That doesn't mean we can't collaborate with the Chinese, and it certainly means we should keep talking to them. But where you used to have some level of trust and some level of communication, now you don't have it. And I worry that the tariffs, not directly, but indirectly, are making us lose that kind of trust. Now that we're in this position, there's obviously this tension between the US and China. Is this an opportunity to do it a different way, to build data centers a different way? I think that's exactly right. This is an opportunity to do it differently. What I would like to see is that more advanced manufacturing of the most sophisticated chips happens here. And I think TSMC is doing some of that. Others, the CHIPS Act, really helped. Also going back to Stargate, those data centers and all of the AI training and the AI inference shouldn't just be happening in the United States. It should be happening in friendly allied countries as well. Iceland, Greenland, the Nordics that have lots of geothermal power should be a part of it. Europe should be a part of it. Japan, our friends in Asia, Singapore, there's really an opportunity here to have a community of like-minded countries that are doing this together. Is President Trump alienating many countries that would be our allies in this endeavor? Yes, some of our friends and allies feel a little bit alienated. I hope ultimately that won't be the case. I think increasingly the administration will understand how important our partners are and how much they add to us. And so I actually believe we'll come out okay in the end. There are still many questions about where the business of AI is headed. The expense of building and running these data centers makes it tough to turn a profit. Open AI, for example, ran a $5 billion loss in 2024. And there's no guarantee that simply adding huge amounts of compute will make AI models smart and reliable enough to be truly transformative. So, as solid and substantial as Stargate might seem, it's surrounded by uncertainty. About how smart AI can get, which bets will pay off, and what kind of future we're creating. The tech industry goes through booms and busts. AI goes through winter's and spring's. How long is this boom going to last? I think this boom has quite a bit of legs. To it, you just sort of look at the long-term investments that the biggest companies in the world are making in this. And I think, even with things coming out like DeepSeek, I think everybody is pretty unanimous in terms of we're staying in the course. What's required for AI to scale is a lot more infrastructure, and there's a bigger risk to under-investment than over-abessment. If ChatGPT were to discover a Stargate, a futuristic wormhole that we could all travel through, what's on the other side? If ChatGPT could transport us to the future? No one knows, right? Do I think I could have sat here in 1905 and told you what we were about to discover in physics? And that 40 years later we would have an atomic bomb? Definitely not. And I think I am way too self-aware of my own limitations to sit here and try to say I can tell you what's on the other side of that wormhole. I have no idea. But that night good? Yes? Up and down, not better in every way, but yeah, I think... Up until the right. Yeah, up until the right. With some choppiness. You