 Project Stargate is a new American company that will invest $500 billion at least in AI infrastructure . The data centers are actually under construction in Texas . The first of them are in Abelene, Texas, which is our first location . I think this will be the most important project of this era .  Stargate is the largest infrastructure building in human history . It will create new ways of doing business, it's going to create ways of invention and drive humanity forward . When Stargate was first announced there was a lot of skepticism, people thought it's just too big to be true .  Stargate is the heart of the Stargate building Abelene . Chase Lockmiller is the founder of Crusoe, the little known data center startup overseeing this massive project . Crusoe's eight plan buildings will hold up to 400,000 chips, which would make this on a 1200 acre campus .  Project Ludacris is one of the world's largest known compute clusters . Stargate, OpenAI, Oracle and Softbank have committed $100 billion to the project so far . The whole thing is supposed to be done by mid-2026 . Each company wants to have the most capable AI being used by the most people, and they've committed tens of billions of dollars .  Many tech leaders want to be the first to create AGI, artificial general intelligence, a super smart agent that can think and learn just like a human . The downside of being behind is that you're out of position for the most important technology for the next 10 to 15 years .  The design of one of the very early layouts of a data center looked a little bit like Stargate from the show . Emerge Stargate began as a codename and sometimes codename stick, but it means something, right? So the design of some of the early layouts for the data centers looked a bit like the Stargate design .  Stargate: "We have a shared vision of AGI coming soon, and we need compute. d take to do compute at this kind of scale" The interesting question is if we knew how to get a trillion dollars right now, if we don't, would we be able to deploy that profitably in the next few years? And I'm not sure about that, but I fee .  There's 155 vehicles that are moving dirt, moving earth right now . There's something so satisfying about seeing lots of dirt being moved . I've never built anything of this scale. It's one of the underappreciated aspects of AI, is actually just the physical infrastructure that's needed . l confident we can make $500 billion of value back.  Locke Miller's path to leading the Stargate build has been circuitous . He's climbed five of the so-called seven summits, the tallest mountain on each continent, and worked in physics and finance . He started out using AI as a trader on Wall Street . He says demand for compute infrastructure is not a US phenomenon, it is a global phenomenon .  Locke Miller left finance to get into crypto, not in the get-rich quick, hyping meme coins way . His idea was to build Bitcoin mining operations near oil rigs, taking advantage of a quirk in the oil drilling process . Miller: "I had high conviction that AI was going to transform everything"  Northern Virginia is largely perceived to be the center of the world for data centers today . Northern Virginia's data center alley is where the first generation of cloud computing was built . Those data centers are full of CPUs, basic computer chips that power everyday things like social media, streaming, and the clouou .  Stargate is part of a new era of data centers full of advanced chips needed to power AI and do lots of tasks at once . Once the eight buildings of Project Ludacris are complete, each of them will hold up to 50,000 chips to be installed by Stargate Partner Oracle .  In March, the company rolled out a new and improved image generator for Chatchy-P-T, which quickly became almost too popular to handle . The company added a million users in an hour or something like that . The sooner this AI factory starts up, the better for OpenAI .  Crusoe: More compute means we can give you more AI. We had to borrow compute capacity from research. You had to slow down some other features. Because it's not like we have hundreds of thousands of GPUs sitting around just like spinning idly. If we had more GPUs, we would be more able to handle demand searches like this .  I think 2025 will be a world where we have agents do a lot of work, but work of the kind of work we already know how to do . The area I'm most excited about is AI for scientific discovery . I'm hopeful that the world will be ready for AI agents to be able to do much more .  2026 will be a big year of like really new scientific progress . But in order for that to happen, buildings full of chips aren't enough. You also need energy. Lots and lots of energy. That could be a problem for the climate and a limiting factor in the growth of AI.  AI data centers can't be located just anywhere . You need a location with lots of available power . West Texas happens to fit the bill . The total power capacity for the site will be 1.2 gigawatts . Enough to power about 750,000 homes, 2600 Tesla Model 3s, or 100 million LED light bulbs .  As more and more AI data centers come online in the next few years, they'll add many gigawatts of demand to an already overstressed grid . According to one estimate, data centers could consume more than 8% of America's electricity by 2035 . Crusoe is even building its own gas power plant on site as a backup .  AI infrastructure that's being developed is "just like fundamentally not possible," says John Sutter . Sutter: AI is a massive tool for invention. It's actually going to accelerate the development of a lot of new technologies. He says the fact that AI has a massive demand for energy puts it in a position to be early adopters of new energy solutions .  Bloomberg's Brody Ford has been following Stargate and the many ways it could go wrong or right for the city of Abelene . For now, Stargate seems to have the resources it needs to accomplish its goals . But with huge investments come huge risks . Ford: "It is a massive project. It's an ambitious target"  Data center spending has ramped in the last couple years . Stargate and Elon's built out in Memphis are thought to be the largest computing clusters at various moments . Soft bank has a reputation for buying toward the top for getting into projects once the hype cycle is already pretty advanced . I think it's going to be something that's very special .  This is a lot of money and not all of your bets have paid off. Where do you get your conviction? Well, you know, sometimes I get crazy over excited and I make mistakes like we work and I have many scars. So we are very confident to make it happen. step by step.  The underlying theme here is that OpenAI and companies like it need as much computing powers that can . Oracle is a company that says, oh, God, you want to pay us to build out these data centers? Absolutely. You count us in. The sizes keep getting bigger and bigger .  DeepSeek appears to have found a more efficient way to power AI. ed far fewer computing resources. Microsoft, for example, announced that it was pausing more canceling several data center builds in the US and abroad. Some companies seem less sure. Microsoft recently announced that .  A lot of folks worry that we aren't that far from seeing some kind of pullback . How confident are you that OpenAI is going to be a financially sustainable and profitable enough company to justify all of this investment? It's looking like we're doing really well. It seems like I feel confident in the bet. It doesn't mean something can't go wrong. What are the risks? I mean, maybe, you know, people stop wanting to like pay for AI service .  There's always going to be doubters, but I think that, again, the money will be there to build the infrastructure . This is like where we built the interstate highway system, that enabled massive interstate commerce and transportation and catalyzed this massive boom in the US economy. s and then we have a difficult financial position.  The Stargate Project could be the largest AI data center in the world . The data center boom isn't just affecting the AI business but there are local impacts too . It's going to create new ways of doing business and invention, says Abelene . Abelene, an old railroad town, is trying to attract data center projects .  Local towns are willing to forego quite a bit of tax revenue to bring in big companies in West Texas . "These are pretty tough deals being struck, right? I mean, I think a lot of these smaller towns did not take place in a tech boom with the last 20 years. All of those jobs went to the coasts."  There's a lot of local city leaders who want to be able to say were a part of this . It's going to help us to pave streets, to hire police officers, to do the things cities do . How many jobs do you think Stargate will really create?  We think about tech investments and tech campuses as kind of these thousands of high-paying jobs, with our really kind of boosting local economy . Once data centers are completed, it's often not a lot of full-time workers . There's going to be all kinds of jobs that go with something that large too, other than just the technical jobs .  Have you heard of Stargate? No. It was announced by Trump, and that's kind of really all that I've heard of it? I know that it has to do with AI and is supposed to bring maybe a lot of people to Abelene. It's going to be a big server farm and employee quite a few people. What do you think about that? Peaches were a good thing. I'm a computer guy. I did that in the Army. I invented computers .  For Abelene, for West Texas, I think it creates a huge stream of jobs that aren't really available . Math and alcohol addiction is huge in this area because one of the only jobs available is the Oling S. ple . Do you have any concerns about how much power they're going to use or water?  The big picture to me is AI is going to take over and then where are we as humans? You know, it just terrifies me. I think it can be used to ways either creatively or kind of a crutch . There's definitely a lot of questions. We'll have to see how the project pans out and it's going to happen over years .  AI is for sure going to change a lot of jobs, totally take some jobs away, create a bunch of new ones. This is like the kind of, this is what happens with technology. In fact, I think you look at the history of the world. That's just been happening for a long time. The first day you're walking down the street and there's seven robots that walk past you doing things .  President Trump's tariffs and the volatility of geopolitics have created potential challenges for the AI infrastructure boom . Technology faces rising costs. Building these data centers just got considerably more expensive. It is very difficult to immediately decouple. Uncertainty is bad for business. Instead of moving forward, people have war rooms about what's tomorrow going to look like?  Stargate: "You cannot just break the international trading system, and we cannot be a country that lives in autarky" 50% of the world's AI researchers are Chinese, Stargate says . "We're in a real race. The Chinese are giving us a run for their money," he says .  There's obviously this tension between the US and China, but this is an opportunity to do it differently . What I would like to see is that more advanced manufacturing of the most sophisticated chips happens here . I worry that the tariffs, not directly, but indirectly, are making us lose that kind of trust .  There are still many questions about where the business of AI is headed . The expense of building and running these data centers makes it tough to turn a profit . Open AI, for example, ran a $5 billion loss in 2024 . There's no guarantee that simply adding huge amounts of compute will make AI models smart and reliable .  The tech industry goes through booms and busts. AI goes through winter's and spring's. How long is this boom going to last? I think this boom has quite a bit of legs. What's required for AI to scale is a lot more infrastructure, and there's a bigger risk to under-investment than over-abessment .  "Up and down, not better in every way, but yeah, I think... Up until the right. With some choppiness," he says . He's too self-aware of his own limitations to sit here and try to say he can tell you what's on the other side of that wormhole .