 After working in AI and machine learning for over four years, I want to share some of the resources and books and courses that really help me in my journey. As there are quite a few, I'm going to break them down into the following categories. Programming and software engineering, maths and stats, machine learning, deep learning and MLMs, and finally AI engineering. Let's get into it. If you want to work in AI, you have to have good software engineering skills and also good programming skills. This opinion is also backed up by Greg Brockerman, who's at Current Open AI CTO. As the AI field is quite new, the de facto language is still up in the air. However, in my opinion, your best bet is to learn Python. Python is the one that's most commonly used nowadays when building any AI infrastructure project. Majority of AI jobs have been spun up from traditional machine learning ones. And in machine learning, the lingua franca, as you can say, is Python. And that's not changing anytime soon. However, I will say that the most popular current AI role is the AI engineer, which is actually a lot more closer to software engineering than it is to machine learning engineering. So it may well be worth learning a backend language like Java, Go, or Rust. I personally use Rust in my day job. So we can see how it's not just Python, but other languages maybe use a lot in the future for most AI jobs. But I still recommend that you start with Python, because like I said, a lot of the machine learning infrastructure and libraries are built around the Python ecosystem. And I don't see that changing for at least half a decade. Now, there are many courses, books, videos, you know, whatever to learn Python. But by far the best teacher, if you want to learn Python or any programming language, or literally anything for that fact, it's practice. So even though I'm going to give you some resources that you need to learn Python, don't worry too much about them. And in fact, everything in this video just uses the resources I'm going to give you to just learn the fundamentals and then start implementing. And that goes for anything in the machine learning AI or the design field. Anyway, I digress. In my main recommendations for Python are the learn Python course by free code camp. This is the first ever Python course I took. It's four hours long. In a piece of all the basics. I really recommend it. Like I said, it's what I got started with. And it served me well so far. The second one is the Python for everybody specialization. This is probably the most well-known Python course, at least on the Coursera platform. And it's probably for good reason. People seem to really like it. I've actually personally never taken it, but I hear such good things about it. And like I said, it's probably the most popular course out there, probably for good reason. I also used Hackerag in leak code just to get some hands-on experience on stopping problems using Python. It's also very good for interview practice. Another resource I use quite a lot is leak code. I use this to learn destruction algorithms and also system design, which are really fundamental topics you need to understand in software engineering if you want to land a job. And finally, another course that I've taken in kind of like drabs is the Harvard CS50 introduction to computer science. It is literally like the best course out there. If you literally know nothing about computer science, it will teach you all the fundamentals, teach you some languages as well. So I really recommend it if you're complete beginner. Even though many people will argue that you don't really need to know the underlying maths to become or work in AI because all the foundational models, you don't really build models, right? You kind of just inference term or you import them in and you use them. So you don't really need to know what's going on under the hood. Now personally, I don't really subscribe to that idea. I think if you want to be a top AI practitioner, then you should have some understanding behind how these LLMs and all these other generative models work under the hood. And to understand how these models work under the hood, you need to study the fundamental maths. And in my opinion, all you need is these following three resources. The first one is a practical statistics for data science textbook. I have recommended this book so much because it's probably the best book if you want to learn stats for data science, maths or machine learning, I should say, an AI. It literally covers everything and it's specifically applied for those fields and it gives you hands-on examples and Python. So by far is the best book you can get if you want to statistics in those fields. The second one is mathematics for machine learning. Again, this one is more on the linear algebra and calculus side. So in general, if you want to learn AI or machine learning, they're going to three areas you need to study. Stats, linear algebra and calculus. The first textbook, the one I recommended, will study the stats and the second one, mathematics for machine learning, will give you the linear algebra and calculus side. It's quite dense, so I don't recommend reading the whole book. But if you learn everything in that textbook, then your maths skills will be more than sufficient for a lifelong career in AI and machine learning. And finally, I recommend the course mathematics for machine learning and deep learning specialization. This course is actually created from deep learning AI, who created the machine learning and deep learning specializations, which are by far the best courses on machine learning and deep learning out there. So I've had really good things about this course and if there's anything like this other ones that have been created, then it's by far in no way probably the best mathematics course you can take because it's also targeted towards those fields. That's the main thing here. We're not learning arbitrary maps, learning maps, that's directly targeted to AI machine learning. So we're learning all the relevant skills, not just everything in the field because I mean, there's maths degrees out there, right? So take those three resources by far in a way, the best ones and I'll cover literally all your bases. And like I said, it's only three of them. So you get everything just using a handful of full of courses. Now, let me give you a quick history lesson. So what most people refer to as AI nowadays, it's not actually AI, it's actually something called generative AI, which is AI that generates images, pictures, videos, etc. Like chat, you be tea in general is text, right? However AI, as a concept, has been around for centuries. And the current state of AI can actually date it back to the 1950s when the first neural network was proposed. It even predates that with Alan cheering, pointing the cheering test on the idea of computer science and thinking machines during the Second World War. Anyway, my point is that AI is so much broader than people may think it is. And to be really proficient in AI, you also have to learn machine learning to a really good level. The following list I'm going to give you will cover all your fundamental knowledge you need in machine learning. But if you want to learn more specialized skills like time series analysis, confidential neural networks, reinforcement learning, let me know and I'll give you some resources that I've used in the past and also have been recommended by other people. So the first book I recommend is that hands-on ML with Psychi Learn, TensorFlow and Kerr's textbook. I've recommended this book so many times. If you could literally get only one book for your whole AI machine learning career, it would be this one. This T-TG pretty much everything. All the fundamentals, how to apply them, how to code and Python, how to implement all these packages and Python. And it even touched upon reinforcement learning and alarms and auto encoders, all these complex things which again, they're more of a not fundamental level. This book literally covers everything. So by far in a way, if there's one book you would want to get from you want to buy watching this video or course watching this video, this is the book. It's linked in the description below with like every other textbook, but I highly recommend it. You can probably find free versions online if you wanted to. I just prefer having a physical copy, but by far and away, the hands-on ML with Psychi Learn, TensorFlow and Kerr's textbook is the best book on machine learning and AI you can get. The second resource I recommend is one that I took right at the beginning of my machine learning journey, which is the machine learning specialization course. It's taught by Andrew and is by far in a way like taught by the best one, the best AI ML researchers and it's probably one of the best courses out there. It's probably one of the most the oldest courses. I think it originally came out in 2012, but it's phenomenal. I really recommend it. I took it and it's done wonders for my career. I can't recommend it enough. It's also been revamped and it's in Python now. When I took it, it was back in Octave or Matlab. So it's even more relevant because you're actually using Python, you're using more up-to-date packages and it teaches a theory and also no books. It's just amazing. So again, I also really recommend this course. Another one, which is more for like bedside reading. It's the 100-page machine learning book by Andre Bukov. Like I said, this one is more like a bedside reading and that it's only 100 pages. It won't go into all the details on depth like a bigger textbook will do, but it'll cover like the overall concepts if that makes sense. So it's really useful to have as a reference text or if you want to learn a new topic, you can open it up, find that section and then you can research more about it online or how you want to do it. But this book is really useful, like I said, to have a reference book. And also, if you can look through that textbook and know everything in it, then your knowledge is great. And the final one is the elements of statistical learning. This one is a bit more kind of traditional because it's more statistical learning than machine learning, but the two are very interlinked. This one is very dense and like I said, it's more of a traditional book. It's a bit drier, but it goes into a lot of the theory really, really deep. So if you want to learn a topic to a really good understanding, particularly if it's more of a traditional machine learning algorithm, then this book is highly recommendable for you. Now, suppose you want a proper and thorough bootcamp to learn machine learning. In that case, I recommend zero to masteries, complete AI, machine learning, and data science bootcamp, who are kindly sponsoring this video. It will teach you how to become a fully fledged machine learning engineer this year. And we'll cover topics like data analysis, data science, machine learning, Python, and pretty much everything else you need to secure a job in machine learning and AI. The main reason I recommend this bootcamp and course is their focus on building projects. Like I said earlier, the only real way to learn something is for consistent practice and building and getting hands-on experience. This course will teach you to build applications and models like hard disease detection app, a boarder's appriage predictor, and a dog breed image classifier, and many, many more. There are also many other courses and career paths on their platform. So I recommend checking it out and seeing what you would like to take and what will help you on your journey. But the best part is their community of over 500,000 students and instructors who will help answer any questions and help you prepare for a career in this field. I've literally never seen any other platform have anything like this. There's a reason that zero to mastery have gotten over a thousand students from zero to getting hired, including top companies like Meta, Google, and Nvidia. I will leave the AI machine learning and data science career path in the description below, as well as the whole course catalog for you to check out. Deep learning is where all these generative AI algorithms come from. So you would really understand how things like LLMs, diffusion models, and transformers work, as well as all the under foundational models under the hoods. I will first begin by learning PyTorch, because if you want to work in AI, you should at least know one deep learning library. Now in the field, there's kind of two main libraries, TensorFlow and PyTorch. I personally recommend PyTorch because it's used more and by more research companies and more papers over at the PyTorch. And it's kind of super seeding as a de facto deep learning library over TensorFlow, particularly in recent years. PyTorch was used in about 77% of research papers published in 2021. And 92% of hugging face models are exclusive to PyTorch. So like I said, the general trend is in the direction of PyTorch. So if you're choosing between PyTorch and TensorFlow, I personally suggest you go PyTorch. Now, after studying PyTorch, I recommend you take the deep learning specialization. This is the follow one from the machine learning specialization, also taught by Andrew Irne, and I'll cover all the things like convolutional neural networks, recurrent neural networks, and even touch upon LLMs. So it will teach you all the deep learning stuff, which is what you need if you want to understand how deep learning and all these more sophisticated models really work. After we've got the fundamentals and deep learning, I then recommend taking the introduction to LLMs video, but Andrea Kapathy. He's probably leading research in AI at the moment. And this one hour video will basically give you a high level overview of where we currently are in the Gen AI particular LLMs base. And it'll set this scene for you and basically just make you understand more about the industry and where it's heading. After watching that hour video, I'll then take Andrea Kapathy's neural networks zero to hero course. This course will basically give you to build PyTorch, or at least how PyTorch works under the herd from scratch. So it's a really, really good educational course. It will start quite simple, of just getting you to make a neural network from scratch, but at the end you're making a whole GPT from scratch. So you go from literally zero to hero real quick, away from neural networks to building GPT, which is like the state of the art in a moment, from scratch, no libraries, literally just rule non-py arrays. So it's really, really good. Again, it kind of can be a bit technically hard, but if you take a whole course and really understand what's going on, then your foundational knowledge behind LLMs and diffusion models and all these sophisticated algorithms would be extraordinary. And finally, if you want a textbook, then I recommend the hands-on language models textbook by Jay Alama. For those of you who don't know, Jay Alama is probably wrote the most famous blog post on Transformers. It's called the Illustrator Transformer, and it's probably the best explanation about Transformers. And what he did is basically took that blog post and made a whole book out of it, obviously adding other things. So this book is probably by the best guy who can explain Transformers to you and he wrote a textbook. So if you really understand things intuitively, then this textbook I find way recommend, and it's probably the only textbook at the moment, that's like really up to date on LLMs, because like I said, it feels quite new, but if you're looking for textbook, then the hands-on large language models is the one I recommend you get. So if you've taken all the course and books I've recommended so far, you have a really good understanding of the current AI landscape, particularly when it comes to things like LLMs and Transformers, and you have that theoretical, also hands-on knowledge as well. So you're up to date of all the latest going on, and you understand what AI currently means in today's society. Now the real value doesn't come from just understanding these systems, it's being able to deploy these models and solutions to production, so they generate business value, customer value, wherever it may be, but the point is these models or these information you have in your head about these models need to go out into production and work for real-life systems. And also if you want to work in AI, most AI jobs now are something called an AI engineer. And then AI engineer is a lot closer to software engineering than machine learning engineering. And what I mean by that is that if you're an AI engineer, you're not necessarily building models in scratch because I love the best models like Lama, Claude, Chatch Bt, I kind of really built. And it's very hard to beat them because one, you haven't got a compute resource, two, the skills, three, again the infrastructure to train these large language models, you just can't do locally or by yourself. So most of the AI engineer role is simply taking these existing foundational models that we call them and implementing solutions, products, and building out the infrastructure around them to serve customers. So you really need to understand how you can productionize these AI algorithms and that's what you need to learn AI engineering. To learn AI engineering and how to productionize AI algorithms, there are two books I recommend. The first one is practical MLOPS. This one is around more high productionized traditional machine learning algorithms, but it's very useful in getting you to understand their online theory like Docker, containerization, computer news, cloud systems, all the things you need to understand how to ship machine learning solutions because that's kind of like the backbone behind shipping AI solutions. So that's the first book I recommend. The second one is the AI engineering textbook. Now this one is raved about so much and I can see for good reason because the person who wrote it, Chip Hune, her name is, she's kind of like a leading AI ML deployment or basically she's a leading practitioner about how to deploy AI and ML systems. So this book written by her is probably the best book you would get out there on AI engineering and it's literally called AI engineering. So these are two books I recommend, practical MLOPS and the AI engineering textbook that I'll cover all your deployment needs and we'll also teach you how to do hands-on examples with deploying both machine learning models and AI models too. So we went through a lot of resources in this video and it may seem quite intimidating to begin with but don't worry too much. I mean these resources are once I've used of my journey and I've been studying this field for over four years and even so I haven't gone through every single textbook end to end. The point is don't over complicate it. If you haven't learned something just pick one of these resources and start with it but you certainly don't have to go through everything end to end like read every word on the textbook just learn the things that are most relevant to you and then apply them and that's how you learn like I said at the beginning. So I wish you luck in your AI journey and I'll leave you by this tweet by André Kapathy which perfectly summarizes how to learn and study AI. How to become an expert at anything. One, it's typically take on concrete projects and accomplish them depthwise. Learning on demand, don't learn bottom up, breath wise. Two, teach summarized everything you learn in your own words. Three, only to pay yourself to younger you, no one's to others. I think that last point is the most important thing you can take from this video and just go forth and happy learning. Oh and one more thing. If you're after for some personalized coaching or like tailored advice then I offer one to one coaching packages, CV reviews, road maps, basically anything that can help you get closer to your data science or machine learning journey. I'll leave a link to the description below about all my services so check that out if you're interested in speeding up the process or if you want some more like I said tailored advice about your situation. I'm sure I can help you.